SELF INTROSPECTION
Posted on 10 Days Ago by Serendipity of Life

Introspection

In the course of our day to day life, we come across people for whom we care and spend time thinking about them, basically about their thought process, their life, their work and what what not. And after spending hours overs this voluntary/involuntary mind crunching over these 'special' humans we end up with the realization that “In these so and so time span I fail to understand the so and so person in  'full' and 'real' ! ". This realisation of ours' is independent of the fact that whether we know them or not!

And if our mind is not satisfied with the tedious task of analyzing and processing the data of the 'special' ones around us, very rarely lead us to the fortunate realization of the fact that "the last time I thought about self was few months(and in many cases years) ago!"
Our eyes open to the bitter truth that instead of thinking about our own self, our own life, we are busy analyzing/thinking/processing about others.
We never have time our own self, we either neglect self knownly or unknowingly. And once we are aware of the ignorance of self, we become aware of the sad reality that we have a sea of people who are still ignorant and are never free to spare few minutes on self. People spends hours trying to improve their looks, embrace new hair style, the latest fashion. Probably they aren't aware of the existence of the words like self-introspection, leave aside the probablity of inspecting their own self.
Many times some questions arises in everyone’s mind

tumblr_mah8x1rWD81qglm58

Though simple, yet questions like

“WHO AM I?”

“WHAT’S THE PURPOSE OF MY LIFE?”

“WHAT HAVE I GAINED FROM MY LIFE?”

"IS THERE SOMETHING TO BE GAINED?"

“AM I HAVING HAPPY AND PEACEFUL LIFE? IF NOT THEN WHAT CAN I DO TO ACHEIVE THEM?”

Can change course of life!

There's a beautiful quote in the novel 'Looking for Alaska', I was going though recently:
"I fell in love the way you fall asleep: slowly, and then all at once"
I believe the attainment of enlightenment would be simmilar to the sudden free fall in love the author expressed above.

I sort of had a 'mini' enlightenment when I dug deeper to find answers to the questions above! 

31-the-meaning-of-life

Questions, such as above sprout when we are in the own company, all alone, perhaps under the canopy of twinkling stars, far away from sea of humanity and the routine-hectics of life.

And to be honest, these questions are hard to answer and as the usual human nature is we moslty dodge these by distracting ourselves.
These questions are hard because many times they end-up with one question 'Whats the ultimate aim of any life?' and we realize the over hype about success, money, love, relations, beauty etc, basically anything and everything which motivates to live on the face of the planet.

When we start thinking about ourselves, about our life, about our success and failure, happy and painful moments, the memories of failure and pain starts outweighing the ones of success and happiness and therfor imbalance our mood and even ending up making ourselves sick.

Actually we think in the wrong directions the end moments of those memories instead of thinking the reason behind those memories what had happen that made you ending up at that point or what were your mistakes but at last we think we are messing up and then we return to those crowded places where people bark about their life time experience, return to the hectic schedule.

And Instead of taking lessons from these unwanted memories, we run away from them, we become an Ostrich burying its head in the sand and waiting for the mood to lighten up..

head-in-sand

We blame the scarcity of time for self-introspection but we have enough of time to spend on social networks, chatting with random people, for foolish devices,for the TV servies, even for the people whom we hate, but have no time for self.

We often read autobiographies, self-improvements book in search of gaining MANTRA of life to learn from the experience of others. But the Mantra simply lies in front of us, the only trouble with us is that we can't to see it, we need to take some trouble to find it. Instead of explorring self, we start believing and trusting others life experiences thinking that it might work for our life too, but most of the time this doesn't work

We are too busy in thinking about others life whether it’s our relative, beloved or even an unknown person…

How others perceive us dent how we see ourselves. I belive, Introspection, in longer run, outweighs perception……

So lets take few minutes from the endless race of life, dismissing the doubts that it will delay our success, to ponder the real Questions of life, So that we can have a smooth race thereafter, and who knows we can be the WINNER…

qoute-2

“KNOWING YOURSELF IS BEGINNING OF ALL WISDOM” – Aristotle

“INTROSPECT; WATCH THE MIND.

IT WILL GRADUALLY GROW CALMER AND CALMER.YOU WILL BE ABLE TO FIND YOUR DEFECTS

– Swami vivekananda

And when you start thinking about yourself, self-introspecting then we will realize that all answers to our question lies inside us….
